---
layout: post
title: "URL in Android"
subtitle: ""
date: 2018-01-14
author: Aether
category: coding
tags: code Android Java
finished: true
---

Constants:

    final static String GITHUB_BASE_URL =
            "https://api.github.com/search/repositories";
    final static String PARAM_QUERY = "q";
    final static String PARAM_SORT = "sort";
    final static String sortBy = "stars";

To build our search URL,we can take advantage of the `Android URI.builder` framework class. It allows us to create a well-formed URI,without having to worry about the particulars of URI components.


For example, adding`&`between query parameters and encoding invalid characters with a percent followed by the character code.

---

`URL` is a specific class of `Uri`.Once we’ve created our base URI by parsing the `GITHUB_BASE_URL` string we created a `Uri.builder` using the buildUpon method.

Then we can call `appendQuery` parameter for our search query and sort fields.Finally we call `build` to produce the Uri we’ll use to query GITHUB.

However,this produces an **Android Uri** while our method requires a **Java URL**.We can convert our new built Uri to a Java URL by passing it as a string parameter to the Java URL constructor.

    public static URL buildUrl(String githubSearchQuery) {
        Uri builtUri = Uri.parse(GITHUB_BASE_URL).buildUpon()
                .appendQueryParameter(PARAM_QUERY,githubSearchQuery)
                .appendQueryParameter(PARAM_SORT,sortBy)
                .build();

        URL url = null;
        try {
            url = new URL(builtUri.toString());
        }catch (MalformedURLException e){
            e.printStackTrace();
        }
        return url;
    }

Then make a method called `makeGithubSearchQuery`. It pulls the githubQuery from the edit text,calls the `buildUrl` method we just wrote, and displays the resulting URL in the Url DisplayTextView.

Finally,we call to the `makeGithubSearchQuery` method from `onOptionItemSelected`.Now when we hit the search button in the action bar,we'll display the URL that we're going to query.

    private void makeGithubSeachQuery(){
        String githubQuery = mSearchBoxEditText.getText().toString();
        URL githubSearchUrl = NetworkUtils.buildUrl(githubQuery);
        mUrlDisplayTextView.setText(githubSearchUrl.toString());
    }

    @Override
    public boolean onOptionsItemSelected(MenuItem item) {
        int itemThatWasClickedId = item.getItemId();
        if (itemThatWasClickedId == R.id.action_search) {
            makeGithubSeachQuery();
            return true;
        }
        return super.onOptionsItemSelected(item);
    }
